BFO First-Order Logic Representation (Experimental)

The representation is in CLIF and is subdivided into 3 directories:

* fol-src
* fol-derived
* meta

The 'source' is in fol-src; this uses a high-level representation in
which relations are in the domain of discourse. For example, it
contains sentences of the form:

  (transitive part_of)

Here we call 'transitive' a meta-predicate or meta-relation. The
'meta' directory contains second-order flavour axioms such as the
following:

  (forall (r)
          (iff (transitive r)
               (forall (x y z)
                       (if (and (r x y)
                                (r y z))
                           (r x z)))))
  
  (forall (r)
          (iff (transitive r)
               (forall (x y z t)
                       (if (and (r x y t)
                                (r y z t))
                           (r x z t)))))

Note that this includes predicates in the variable position, which
makes the combination of fol-src plus meta syntactically
second-order. But semantically we are still within FOL. Nevertheless,
this is too expressive for many theorem provers to handle. We can
treat the axioms as simple macro-expansion rules and arrive at a
syntactically first-order representation. This goes in
fol-derived. Here we see for example:

  (forall (x y z)
   (if (and (part_of x y)(part_of y z))
    (part_of x z)))
  
  (forall (x y z t)
   (if (and (part_of x y t)(part_of y z t))
    (part_of x z t)))

This could be considered the more 'accurate' representation of BFO,
since relations are removed from the domain of discourse.

The translation is handled by the Makefile in this directory. cltools
is required. At the moment translations to CLIF and to Prover9 are
supported.

Why do it this way? One reason is that the macro approach is easier to
maintain as it involves less repetitive typing. Also, in abstracting
the patterns we make it easier to translate to other languages. It is
diffiult to translate the axioms in fol-derived directly to OWL, but
much simpler to translate the axioms in fol-src (for the subset that
can be expressed).

